[Music]
by soaking their chests
they can collect a little water to lick
off back of the roost
but this is probably the most dangerous
thing they'll ever do
australian freshwater crocodiles
warmed by the summer heat they
are at their most alert
a crocodile's jaws snap shut in the
blink of an eye
the bat's reactions
must be quicker
they must choose a spot and run the
gauntlet
[Music]
the survivors will brave the river every
day
until the monsoon rains break
which must be soon
but nothing goes to waste the death of a
hippo provides a meal for the river's
most fearsome
and efficient predators the nile
crocodile
growing up to five meters in length
these crocodiles hunt
and scavenge there's a lot of crocs
a hippo carcass just down the river from
the studio
is instantly set upon by these voracious
reptiles
this is about 100 meters in front of us
a classic
luango scene a dead hippo in the water
and about 30 crocodiles
what's amazing is that there are two or
three hippos that are coming in and
actually trying to force the crocodiles
off the card because obviously mum will
be one of them
there seems to be a whole gang that are
trying to force the crops off while they
tear this thing to pieces so it's pretty
primeval
hippos and crocodiles normally coexist
peacefully
but crocs will take every opportunity to
prey on a weak animal
or scavenge a dead one we've seen one or
two of these hippos
doing these big yawning displays which
is really a threat to the crocodiles
they're trying to drive the crocodiles
off with this big yawn and
you know sharp teeth and everything but
the crocs obviously not intimidated by
that at all
and the crops are here in numbers so
that you know the hippos have got no
chance really of driving them
alison leslie is one of the foremost
authorities on nile crocodiles she
explains to one of the film crew
the unique manner in which the crocs
feed if it's a bony chunk they will
literally just
crush 2 000 pounds per square inch they
will just crush everything
until it's in a sort of a soft enough
condition that they can just swallow
and if it's a chunk of say for example
skin or
innards they just fill their mouth and
shake and take and shake until this food
literally slides down their throat
there's some sort of hierarchy there
they rely on each other to actually grab
onto either end of a piece of prey and
then they rotate in opposite directions
so
although to us it looks like this mad
frenzy and splashing and going on
there's actually a really
controlled sort of system in place there
amazingly so
everybody's concentrated in the areas
the hippos are dying off
you know slowly but surely and these
cleaning machines have come in just to
you know keep the system freshened up
crocodiles are opportunists they feed on
fish in the river
and at this time of year will make the
most of any dying or dead hippos
but they will also take advantage of any
animal coming to the river to drink
with that sort of number of crocs in an
area obviously if there's an impile on
the bank there's going to be a number of
crocs going for that animal
if we don't get rain i think there's
going to be a bit of an uproar in some
of these areas
so for the thirsty animals this croc
infested river
is as dangerous as it is necessary
for the calf and his mother going back
is not an option
briefly he finds a foothold
then panic sets in
crocodiles deliberately select
particular victims
mother and calf have no room to maneuver
the mother is grabbed the calf
is swept away
the current is so strong that the
crocodiles can't fight it
only a rock stops their struggles
the calf too is battling for his life
[Applause]
but the crocodile's hole is awkward
reinforcements arrive
the crocodile is tiring and has to
change its grip
miraculously the mother is relatively
unharmed
the calf tries to keep his head above
water
the crocodile is exhausted it has to let
her go
[Music]
mother and calf rejoin below the rapids
together they make it ashore
others are not so lucky
[Applause]
i've just seen a really good sized
crocodile slide into the water
and i'm just trying to get a handle on
where it is
it's even more gloomy and sinister now
[Music]
oh i see it i see it now super giant
croc up ahead of us
he is a true monster
i'm having to do all i can
to keep my heart rate down
the last thing i want is for him to
sense
any fear from me
[Music]
it's a whole different scale it's
probably over four meters in length it
could be four and a half
[Music]
this animal is standing up
messing threatening alert
i'm really not that comfortable being so
close to him
it's one of the most chilling
experiences i've ever had
a crocodile of this size could be 50
years old
and would have no trouble taking an
adult wildebeest
or me this is the closest i've ever been
to lying alongside a dinosaur
[Music]
the massive male makes for the surface
but simply takes a breath and heads
straight back down towards us
it's coming after us along the bottom
[Music]
big males battle to dominate their
territories
he clearly sees us as a challenge
we've no choice but to risk a dash for
the surface
[Music]
well that was without a doubt
the most frightening experience i've
ever had with animals
if undisturbed wildebeest can drink
eight
liters in a single session
as his confidence builds he is oblivious
to what lurks beneath the surface
the herd is bewildered some have never
seen a crocodile before
even as the full horror unfurls there is
great confusion
about just what is going on
and that was just the first attack
300 hungry crocodiles live in the
grumetti river
wildebeest react differently to
crocodiles and other predators
even the adults seem unsure of just how
much danger they're in
the cast's desire to quench his thirst
overcomes any fear
he may have
the crocodiles maneuver around them with
surprising ease
they are intelligent hunters plotting
their attack
with precision
a strike can happen at any time
[Applause]
despite the carnage the mother and calf
survive
they stampede back onto the plains
for the baboons it's more like a
spectator sport
they might as well settle down a single
croc
can take some time to overpower its
victim
but crocodiles of co-operative fields
they work together
the death roll breaks the prey into
bite-sized chunks
but aggression can spill over
[Music]
you